Updated install doc (#986)
Kuadrant/kuadrant-operator: config/install/README.md

# Install Kaudrant and Sail via OLM

- Pre-Req is that OLM (operator lifecycle manager) is already installed

- (optional dependencies)
  - If you want to use `TLSPolicy` you should install the cert-manager operator. 
  - AWS/Azure or GCP with DNS capabilities if you want to make use of `DNSPolicy`.
  - Accessible Redis instance, if you want persistent storage for your rate limit counters.

Install the Sail and Kuadrant Operators via OLM:

> Note: By default this will install the "latest" or "main" of kuadrant. To change that, pick a release from the releases page in the kuadrant operator and change the image in the `config/deploy/install/standard/kustomization.yaml`.

> Note: We are using the `--context` flag here this is useful if installing on more than one cluster otherwise it is not needed

```
export ctx=replace-with-your-context
```

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/standard --context=$ctx
``` 

> 3) verify kuadrant and sail operators are installed. Note this can take a while. You can also take a look at the subscription and installplan resource to help with debugging but the end state should be as below:

Author: possible a good followup?

> 3) verify kuadrant and sail operators are installed. Note this can take a while. You can also take a look at the subscription and installplan resource to help with debugging but the end state should be as below:

Reviewer: do you mean after the install is complete?

If you want to keep in debugging remove number and fix the capitalisation

```

> kubectl get deployments -n kuadrant-system --context=$ctx
> ```
> 
> ```
> 
> NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
> authorino-operator                      1/1     1            1           83m
> dns-operator-controller-manager         1/1     1            1           83m
> kuadrant-console-plugin                 1/1     1            1           83m
> kuadrant-operator-controller-manager    1/1     1            1           83m
> limitador-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           83m
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
kubectl get deployments -n kuadrant-system --context=$ctx

# NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
# authorino-operator                      1/1     1            1           83m
# dns-operator-controller-manager         1/1     1            1           83m
# kuadrant-console-plugin                 1/1     1            1           83m
# kuadrant-operator-controller-manager    1/1     1            1           83m
# limitador-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           83m
```
Looks cleaner than the code block like I originally thought as the copy button makes it look like its something to be run

Reviewer: markdown in the suggestion option is a little odd as its markdown suggestions in markdown so you may need to make the changes manually

```

```

> kubectl get deployments -n gateway-system --context=$ctx
> ```
> 
> ```
> 
> NAME            READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
> istiod          1/1     1            1           61s
> sail-operator   1/1     1            1           81m
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get deployments -n gateway-system --context=$ctx

# NAME            READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
# istiod          1/1     1            1           61s
# sail-operator   1/1     1            1           81m

```

```

## Configure the installation

### TLS and DNS integration

To setup the DNS and TLS integration (TLS also uses DNS for verification) follow these steps:

1) Depending on your choice of cloud provider:
    - setup the needed `$CLOUD_PROVIDER-credentials.env` in the cloud provider directory. E.G create `aws-credentials.env` in the `config/install/configure/aws` directory

3) execute the configure for that cloud provider

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/aws --context=$ctx

```

> This will configure Kuadrant and Sail installing their components as well as setup the the credentials needed for access DNS zones in the cloud provider and create a lets-encrypt cluster issuer configured to use DNS based validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will configure Kuadrant and Sail to install their components, set the credentials needed to access DNS zones in the cloud provider, and create a Let's Encrypt cluster issuer configured to use DNS-based validation.
```
Run on sentence

### Validate

Validate Kuadrant is ready via the kuadrant resource status condition

```
kubectl get kuadrant kuadrant -n kuadrant-system -o=yaml --context=$ctx

```

At this point Kuadrant is ready to use. Below are some additional configuration that can be applied.

### External Redis

create a `redis-credential.env` in the `config/install/configure/redis-storage` dir

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/redis-storage --context=$ctx

```

> This will setup limitador to use provided redis connection URL as a backend store for ratelimit counters. Limitador will becomes temporarily unavailable as it restarts.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will setup Limitador to use the Redis connection URL as a backend store for rate limit counters. Limitador will become temporarily unavailable as the pods restart.

```

### Validate

Validate Kuadrant is in a ready state as before:

```
kubectl get kuadrant kuadrant -n kuadrant-system -o=yaml --context=$ctx

```

## Set up observability

Verify that user workload monitoring is enabled in your Openshift cluster.
If it not enabled, check the [Openshift documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/observability/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html) for how to do this.

> 
> ```bash
> kubectl get configmap cluster-monitoring-config -n openshift-monitoring -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.yaml}'|grep enableUserWorkload
> 
> (expected output)
> enableUserWorkload: true
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
kubectl get configmap cluster-monitoring-config -n openshift-monitoring -o jsonpath='{.data.config\.yaml}'|grep enableUserWorkload

# (expected output)
# enableUserWorkload: true
```
```

> Install the gateway & kuadrant metrics components and configuration, including Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the gateway & Kuadrant metrics components and configuration, including Grafana.
```

```bash
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/observability
```

> Configure the openshift thanos-query instance as a data source in Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the Openshift thanos-query instance as a data source in Grafana.
```

# Install Kuadrant and Sail via OLM

## Prerequisites  
- Clone the[ Kuadrant-operator](https://github.com/Kuadrant/kuadrant-operator) repo
- OLM (operator lifecycle manager)
- cert-manager 

> - - [cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-install.html)

Reviewer: Sorry i got the markdown wrong for this its not two dash for indented bullet point you actually just indent the one dash

# Install Kuadrant and Sail via OLM

## Prerequisites  
- Clone the[ Kuadrant-operator](https://github.com/Kuadrant/kuadrant-operator) repo
- OLM (operator lifecycle manager)
- cert-manager 
  - [cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/security/cert_manager_operator/cert-manager-operator-install.html)
  - [installing cert-manager via OperatorHub](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/operator-lifecycle-manager/)
- AWS, Azure or GCP with DNS capabilities. (Optional)
- Accessible Redis instance, for persistent storage for your rate limit counters. (Optional)

- (optional dependencies)
  - If you want to use `TLSPolicy` you should install the cert-manager operator. 
  - AWS/Azure or GCP with DNS capabilities if you want to make use of `DNSPolicy`.
  - Accessible Redis instance, if you want persistent storage for your rate limit counters.

> 

Reviewer: Remove

```

NAME            READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
istiod          1/1     1            1           61s
sail-operator   1/1     1            1           81m

```

## Configure the installation

### TLS and DNS integration

Create the `$CLOUD_PROVIDER-credentials.env file` in the cloud provider directory `config/install/configure/$CLOUD_PROVIDER.` e.g. `aws-credentials.env` in the `config/install/configure/aws` directory. Apply the configuration for the desired cloud provider. Example AWS

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/aws

```

This will configure Kuadrant and Sail to install their components, set the credentials needed to access DNS zones in the cloud provider, and create a Let's Encrypt cluster issuer configured to use DNS-based validation.

### Validate

Validate Kuadrant is ready via the kuadrant resource status condition

```
kubectl get kuadrant kuadrant -n kuadrant-system -o=yaml

```

At this point Kuadrant is ready to use. Below are some additional configuration that can be applied.

### External Redis

create a `redis-credential.env` in the `config/install/configure/redis-storage` dir

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/redis-storage

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line in code block so it cohesive with other blocks

```

This will setup limitador to use provided redis connection URL as a backend store for ratelimit counters. Limitador will becomes temporarily unavailable as it restarts.

### Validate

Validate Kuadrant is in a ready state as before:

```
kubectl get kuadrant kuadrant -n kuadrant-system -o=yaml

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line in code block so it cohesive with other blocks

# Install Kaudrant and Sail via OLM

- Pre-Req is that OLM (operator lifecycle manager) is already installed

- (optional dependencies)
  - If you want to use `TLSPolicy` you should install the cert-manager operator. 
  - AWS/Azure or GCP with DNS capabilities if you want to make use of `DNSPolicy`.
  - Accessible Redis instance, if you want persistent storage for your rate limit counters.

Install the Sail and Kuadrant Operators via OLM:

> Note: By default this will install the "latest" or "main" of kuadrant. To change that, pick a release from the releases page in the kuadrant operator and change the image in the `config/deploy/olm/catalogsource.yaml` or if you are familiar with kustomize you could apply your own kustomization.

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/standard
``` 

3) verify kuadrant and sail operators are installed. Note this can take a while. You can also take a look at the subscription and installplan resource to help with debugging but the end state should be as below:

```
kubectl get deployments -n kuadrant-system

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE

> authorino-operator                      1/1     1            1           83m

Reviewer: This add the output to the command to so it breaks it you could add it as comments or as a separate code block

dns-operator-controller-manager         1/1     1            1           83m
kuadrant-console-plugin                 1/1     1            1           83m
kuadrant-operator-controller-manager    1/1     1            1           83m
limitador-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           83m

> 

Reviewer: your missing a code block end tag here maybe linked to the above tissue to

# Install Kaudrant and Sail via OLM

- Pre-Req is that OLM (operator lifecycle manager) is already installed

- (optional dependencies)
  - If you want to use `TLSPolicy` you should install the cert-manager operator. 
  - AWS/Azure or GCP with DNS capabilities if you want to make use of `DNSPolicy`.
  - Accessible Redis instance, if you want persistent storage for your rate limit counters.

Install the Sail and Kuadrant Operators via OLM:

> Note: By default this will install the "latest" or "main" of kuadrant. To change that, pick a release from the releases page in the kuadrant operator and change the image in the `config/deploy/olm/catalogsource.yaml` or if you are familiar with kustomize you could apply your own kustomization.

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/standard
``` 

3) verify kuadrant and sail operators are installed. Note this can take a while. You can also take a look at the subscription and installplan resource to help with debugging but the end state should be as below:

```

> kubectl get deployments -n kuadrant-system

Reviewer: it breaks from here

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/standard
``` 

3) verify kuadrant and sail operators are installed. Note this can take a while. You can also take a look at the subscription and installplan resource to help with debugging but the end state should be as below:

```
kubectl get deployments -n kuadrant-system
```

```

NAME                                    READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
authorino-operator                      1/1     1            1           83m
dns-operator-controller-manager         1/1     1            1           83m
kuadrant-console-plugin                 1/1     1            1           83m
kuadrant-operator-controller-manager    1/1     1            1           83m
limitador-operator-controller-manager   1/1     1            1           83m

```

```
kubectl get deployments -n gateway-system
```

```

NAME            READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
sail-operator   1/1     1            1           81m

```

## Configure the installation

### TLS and DNS integration

To setup the DNS and TLS integration (TLS also uses DNS for verification) follow these steps:

1) Depending on your choice of cloud provider:

>     - setup the needed `CLOUD_PROVIDER-credentals.env` in the cloud provider directory. E.G create `aws-credentials.env` in the `install/configure/aws` directory

Reviewer: config/install/...

>     - setup the needed `CLOUD_PROVIDER-credentals.env` in the cloud provider directory. E.G create `aws-credentials.env` in the `install/configure/aws` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - setup the needed `$CLOUD_PROVIDER-credentals.env` in the cloud provider directory. E.G create `aws-credentials.env` in the `install/configure/aws` directory
```

>     - setup the needed `CLOUD_PROVIDER-credentals.env` in the cloud provider directory. E.G create `aws-credentials.env` in the `install/configure/aws` directory

Reviewer: spelling mistake credentials

3) execute the configure for that cloud provider

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/aws

```

This will configure Kuadrant and Sail installing their components as well as setup the the credentials needed for access DNS zones in the cloud provider and create a lets-encrypt cluster issuer configured to use DNS based validation.

### Validate

Validate Kuadrant is ready via the kuadrant resource status condition

```
kubectl get kuadrant kuadrant -n kuadrant-system -o=yaml

```

At this point Kuadrant is ready to use. Below are some additonal configuration that can be applied.

### External Redis

create a `redis-credential.env` in the `config/install/configure/redis-storage` dir

```
kubectl apply -k config/install/configure/redis-storage

```

This will setup limitador to use provided redis connection URL as a backend store for ratelimit counters. Limitador will becomes temporarilly unavailable as it restarts.

> 

Reviewer: We should mention console plugin and how to enable it to

Author: maybe that should be a separate doc that this could link to? as it requires going into the UI etc right

Reviewer: it was mentioned in the other openshift doc but could be a separate doc to

Reviewer: we have a command for it now using the cli `kubectl patch consoles.operator.openshift.io cluster --type='json' -p='[{"op": "add", "path": "/spec/plugins/-", "value": "kuadrant-console"}]'`
